Redesign of telemetry/observability docu (#16336)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/01-overview/main-areas/telemetry/README.md

- logs will be not based on the vendor-neutral OTLP protocol, follow this [epic](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/issues/16307) to understand the current progress on that
- the focus on filtering capabilities is to reduce the overall shipment bandwidth to an acceptable minimum, as telemetry data is high-volume data which is always related to a price. So filtering features are focused on reducing signal data to relevant namespaces or workloads for example. By default, system related telemetry data will not be shipped. For custom scenarios there is always the opt-out possibility.

## Scope

There will be a focus on the signals of application logs, distributed traces and metrics only. Other kind of signals are not considered. Also, logs like audit logs or operational logs are specifically de-scoped.

Supported integration scenarios are neutral to the vendor of the target system, a vendor-specific way is not planned at the moment.

## Components

![Components](./assets/general-components.drawio.svg)

### Telemetry Operator

> The module ships the Telemetry Operator as it's heart component. The operator implements the Kubernetes controller pattern and manages the whole lifecycle of all other components covered in the module. The operator watches for resources created by the user of type LogPipeline, TracePipeline and in future MetricPipeline. With these, the user describes in a declarative way what data of a signal type to collect and where to ship it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The module ships the Telemetry Operator as its heart component. The operator implements the Kubernetes controller pattern and manages the whole lifecycle of all other components covered in the module. The operator watches for LogPipeline, TracePipeline, and, in the future, MetricPipeline resources created by the user. With these, the user describes in a declarative way what data of a signal type to collect and where to ship it.
```

> If the operator detects a configuration, it will on demand roll-out the relevant collector components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the operator detects a configuration, it will on demand roll out the relevant collector components.
```

> More details to the operator itself can be found at the [operator](./telemetry-01-operator.md) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find more details about the operator on the [operator](./telemetry-01-operator.md) page.
```

### Log Collector

> The Log Collector is based on a [Fluentbit](https://fluentbit.io/) installation running as a [DamonSet](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/). It reads all logs of the containers in the runtime and ships them according to a LogPipeline configuration. More details can be found at the detailed section about [Logs](./telemetry-02-logs.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Log Collector is based on a [Fluent Bit](https://fluentbit.io/) installation running as a [DaemonSet](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/). It reads all containers' logs in the runtime and ships them according to a LogPipeline configuration. More details can be found in the detailed section about [Logs](./telemetry-02-logs.md).
```

### Trace Collector

> The Trace Collector is based on a [Otel Collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/) [Deployment](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/). It provides an [OTLP](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/protocol/) based endpoint where applications can push trace signals to. According to a TracePipeline configuration the collector will process and ship the trace data to a target system. More details can be found at the detailed section about [Traces](./telemetry-03-traces.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Trace Collector is based on a [OTel Collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/) [Deployment](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/). It provides an [OTLP-based](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/protocol/) endpoint where applications can push the trace signals. According to a TracePipeline configuration, the collector will process and ship the trace data to a target system. More details can be found in the detailed section about [Traces](./telemetry-03-traces.md).
```
